Hyah!
[train whistling]
♪ First thing we'd climb a tree ♪
♪ And maybe then we'd talk ♪
♪ Or sit silently ♪
♪ And listen to our thoughts ♪
♪ With illusions of someday ♪
♪ Casting a golden light ♪
♪ No dress rehearsal ♪
♪ This is our life ♪
♪ You are ahead by a century ♪
-♪ This is our life ♪
-♪ You are ahead by a century ♪
-[birds chirping]
-[horse whinnies nearby]
You'll want to hurry and eat
if you're to meet the train on time.
[sighs] I pray this isn't foolishness,
but it's too late now.
We made a practical decision.
We'll just have to hope for the best.
With any luck, Mrs. Spencer
will have picked out a good one.
A hard worker and obedient,
like we asked for.
I couldn't tolerate a lazy boy
or a sullen boy.
No, I couldn't abide it and I wouldn't.
In spite of all the worry,
I'm relieved to know
you'll have a regular hand
about the place.
You can't buy loyalty.
You coming in sometime today?
Matthew Cuthbert, you must be in a state.
Since when do you sit at the table
without washing your hands?
[sighs]
Let's not forget you were the one
convinced of this plan.
You've been set on it since winter,
so there's no point fretting now.
Not that I disagree, because I don't.
Will you be ready to set off
as soon as you're finished here?
I will.
Bet it won't take long
for Rachel to come a-knocking.
Lord knows she's got a hunger for gossip
like a person starved.
[horse snorting]
[gate creaking]
[sighs]
[baby crying]
[Anne gasps]
I told you to have their supper
on the table a half-hour ago.
-She needs her diaper changed.
-Did you milk the cow?
-No. Not yet, but I--
-Give her to me!
You want these children to starve to
death? Do something right for a change.
You're more trouble than you're worth.
Nothing but a miserable piece of trash!
[gasps]
Hurry up! We'll see what Mr. Hammond has
to say about this when he gets home.
[dog barking]
[breathes heavily]
Are you quite all right, dear?
I like imagining better than remembering.
Why are the worst memories
the most insistent?
I wouldn't know. Try to rest.
"If all the world hated you,
and believed you wicked...
but your own conscience approved of you
and absolved you from guilt...
you would not be without friends."
I love Jane Eyre, don't you?
I never met her.
I'm glad you've woken. I have so many
more questions for you about Green Gables.
I'm sure you do.
Why do you suppose
neither of the Cuthberts ever married?
Did either of them
have a tragical romance?
-It's none of our business.
-But I'm bursting with curiosity!
Uh... shh.
[train whistling]
[horses whinnying]
Whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Afternoon.
Sir.
I was wondering if you could, uh, help me.
[stammers] Is there, um--?
A little girl? You didn't see her?
She's just outside.
Wouldn't come in. Darndest thing.
But--
Said she preferred to sit outside
because there was... What was it now?
"More scope for the imagination."
That was it.
She's a case, I should say.
I heard her talking to herself out there.
But I-I'm not expecting a girl.
It's a boy that I have come for.
Mrs. Spencer was to bring him over
from the asylum.
Well, Mrs. Spencer got off the train
with that strange snippet.
Gave her into my charge.
Said you'd be along for her presently.
Well, that's all I know about it.
I haven't got any more orphans
concealed hereabouts.
I...
I don't understand.
Well, I'm sure the girl
will be only too happy
to tell you every little detail
of what happened.
[chuckles] She's got a tongue of her own,
that's for certain.
Good day to you.
I suppose you are Matthew Cuthbert
of Green Gables?
I'm very glad to see you.
I was beginning to be afraid
you weren't coming,
and I was imagining all the things
that might've happened to prevent you.
I'd made up my mind
that if you didn't come for me,
I'd go down the track
to that big wild cherry tree,
and climb up into it and stay all night.
I wouldn't be a bit afraid,
and it would be lovely to sleep in a tree
white with bloom in the moonshine,
don't you think?
I can also imagine that I'm already
a disappointment to you.
I'm aware that I'm not much to look at,
but even though I'm thin, I'm very strong.
I want you to know that I'm forever
grateful that you're adopting me.
You're a sight for sore eyes,
Mr. Cuthbert.
You best come along.
-Uh, I'll take your bag.
-Oh, I can carry it.
It isn't heavy.
I've got all my worldly goods in it,
but it isn't heavy.
And if it isn't carried a certain way,
it falls right open,
so I'd better keep it.
I've come to know the exact knack of it.
I am ecstatic beyond measure
that I'm going to belong to you
and your sister.
Ecstatic.
I've never belonged to anybody before.
I mean, you and your sister
are practically the stuff of fiction.
Two hard-working decent people,
lonely all their lives
in their silent house,
longing for the love of a child.
And I will strive to be just the best
daughter that anybody could ever have.
I'm sure that I could do it.
To be honest,
I haven't had much experience at it.
I'm not usually brought into the house
to be a daughter, so...
you can well imagine what a blessing
this is, and how much my heart is lifted.
And I've given it a lot of thought,
and I am determined
that I shall be obedient and dutiful,
and yet, yet lively enough
so as to lighten up the place,
after you've lived for so many years
without the delights of a happy child
and the scope of her imagination.
Have you always wanted a daughter?
Always in your heart of hearts?
I read once that a daughter is
a little girl who grows up to be a friend.
And it, it gives my heart a thrill
to even say it aloud.
Oh...
Oh, isn't she lovely?
-What's her name?
-Uh...
That's, um... Mare.
She doesn't have a name?
But the right name is so important.
She looks to me like her name is Belle.
Hello, Belle. You are a beauty,
and I am sure we'll be great friends.
Mare... [clicks tongue]
Bye, tree!
That cherry tree is my first friend here
on the island.
What did that cherry tree,
all white and lacy, make you think of?
Well, now, um... I dunno.
[Anne] Why, a bride, of course.
A bride all in white with a misty veil.
I've never seen one,
but I imagine what she would look like.
I never expect to be a bride myself.
I'm so homely.
Nobody would ever want to marry me.
Unless he was a foreign missionary.
I suppose a foreign missionary
mightn't be very particular.
But I do hope someday I shall have
a white dress with beautiful puff sleeves.
That is my highest ideal of earthly bliss.
Am I talking too much?
People are always telling me that I do,
and it seems to cause aggravation.
Would you rather I didn't talk?
If you say so, I'll stop.
I can stop when I make up my mind to it,
although it's difficult.
I don't mind.
I'm so glad.
I know that you and I
are gonna get along together just fine.
It's such a relief
to talk when one wants to
and not be told that children
should be seen and not heard.
I've had that said to me a million times
if I have once.
People would laugh at me
because I use big words, but...
but they're exciting
and descriptive words, like...
like "enraptured" and "glorious."
If you have big ideas, you have to use
big words to express them, haven't you?
Well... I suppose so.
For example...
I am enraptured
by this glorious landscape!
Just careful now. Careful.
[exhales]
[knocks]
[Marilla] Afternoon, Rachel.
I've put the kettle on.
Won't you sit down?
I don't want to interrupt
if you're expecting company.
Oh, we've got plenty of time.
Matthew won't be back for several hours.
I took quite a fright
when I saw Matthew starting off today.
I can imagine.
Well, I couldn't imagine
what might cause him
to leave his crop
in the middle of the afternoon.
I was fearful he'd gone
to call for the doctor.
-Oh, I'm quite well.
-Oh, what a relief.
Oh! [whispers] My, my, my.
[exhales]
'Course, now that I have time to think...
it wouldn't make sense for Matthew to take
the time to put on his best set of clothes
had there been an emergency.
No. It wouldn't.
No, indeed.
[clicks tongue]
Oh, for heaven's sake, Marilla.
Matthew's gone to the train station
at Bright River.
[exhales] Well, well. Bright River.
He's fetching a hired hand?
Yes and no.
We're adopting a boy
from the orphan asylum in Nova Scotia,
and he's arriving today.
-Matthew's gone to fetch him.
-Marilla Cuthbert,
if you had told me that Matthew
was meeting a... kangaroo from Australia,
I couldn't be more surprised.
An orphan boy?
What on earth put such a notion
into your head?
Because I'm gonna tell you plain...
you're doing a mighty foolish thing,
a risky thing, that's what.
[bird squawking]
[Anne] I cannot believe that I'm going
to get to live somewhere so beautiful.
Dreams don't often come true, do they?
But just now I feel
pretty nearly perfectly happy.
Although I can't feel
exactly perfectly happy because, well...
what color would you call this?
It's red, isn't it?
Yes, it's red.
Now you see
why I can't be perfectly happy.
Nobody could who has red hair. It's...
my lifelong sorrow.
You don't know what you're getting.
You're letting a...
strange child into your house,
and you don't know a thing about him.
Why, only last week,
I was reading in the paper
how a man and his wife,
uh, up west of the island,
took an orphan boy out of the asylum,
and he set fire to their home.
At night.
Set it on purpose, Marilla.
And they nearly burnt to a crisp
in their beds!
Now, if you would have asked
for my advice on this matter,
-which you didn't do--
-Sugar?
I would have told you for mercy's sake not
to think of such a thing, that's what!
I don't deny there's something
in what you say, Rachel. I've...
I've had some qualms myself.
How could you not?
Matthew is getting on in years,
and his heart's been bothering him.
A boy will be a great help.
It isn't as if he's coming from overseas
or the States. He's from Nova Scotia.
Can't be much different than ourselves.
Well, there is some comfort in that,
knowing he's not some London street Arab.
Or some French ruffian.
An orphan, Marilla.
Matthew's been terrible set on it.
Well, I only hope and pray
it works all right.
Only don't say I didn't warn you
if he burns Green Gables down,
or puts strychnine in the well.
I heard of a case over in New Brunswick
where an orphan asylum child
did just that,
and the whole family died
in fearful agonies.
Only it was a girl in that instant.
Well, we're not getting a girl.
[Anne] Oh, Mr. Cuthbert!
-What do they call this place?
-The Avenue.
I suppose it is kind of pretty.
Oh, "pretty" doesn't seem the right word
to use. Nor "beautiful," either.
They don't go far enough.
It's... wonderful.
Wonderful.
The first thing I ever saw
that couldn't be improved upon
by the imagination.
Other people may call it "The Avenue,"
but I shall always call it
"the White Way of Delight."
[Matthew] This here is Barry's Pond.
[Anne] I don't like that name, either.
I shall call it...
let me see...
"the Lake of Shining Waters."
Yes, that's the right name for it.
I-I know because of the thrill.
Do things ever give you a thrill?
Uh, I don't rightly know.
There has to be something.
Well, now, um... [clicks tongue]
I suppose it kind of gives me a thrill
to see those ugly white grubs spade up
in the cucumber beds.
Well, I suppose I can imagine that.
I hate the look of them,
and like to be rid of them.
I suppose I gave Mrs. Hammond
a thrill, then.
She was happy to be rid of me
after her husband died.
Who's Mrs. Hammond?
I worked for her family taking care
of the children for a few years.
She had eight.
It sure seems to make some people angry
when they have so many children.
Mr. and Mrs. Hammond
were certainly vexed all the time.
[Mr. Hammond] Move, scarecrow!
-[Anne] Please, please! [yelps, sobs]
-This'll teach ya.
[Mr. Hammond groans]
-Mr. Hammond?
-[barks]
[yells] Mrs. Hammond! Mrs. Hammond!
[pants]
-[Mr. Hammond groans]
-[barks]
[squawking]
-Is anything the matter?
-No. Nothing.
I was, I was startled
by the geese, is all.
Don't you just love them?
The geese? I do.
They're a very romantical species of bird.
Well, I wouldn't know about that.
Did you know they mate for life?
They choose each other out
of all the other geese in the world,
and they stay together
until death do they part.
Well, now...
Uh, we're pretty near home.
Just another mile or so.
"Home."
What a wonderful word.
[cows mooing, goats bleating]
-Green Gables.
-[clicks tongue] Whoa, whoa, whoa.
[Anne] I have pinched myself
so many times today.
Every little while, this horrible
sickening feeling would come over me,
and I'd be so afraid
that this was all a dream.
But I just had to one more time.
This is real.
Green Gables is real and we're home.
[Anne chuckles]
Mare. [clicks tongue]
[Matthew grunts]
[Anne chuckles]
[soft chuckle]
[chuckles]
Matthew Cuthbert, who's that?
Where is the boy?
There wasn't any boy.
There was only her.
[Marilla] No boy?
But there must have been a boy. We sent
word to Mrs. Spencer to bring us a boy.
Well, she didn't.
She brought her.
I asked the stationmaster.
I had to bring her home.
She couldn't be left there,
no matter where the mistake had come in.
[exhales]
Well, this is a pretty piece of business.
-She's gotta go back.
-You don't want me.
[gasps] I should have expected it.
I might have known
nobody would really want me.
Oh, for heaven's sake, child!
What are you doing on the ground?
Now you listen here and stand up.
-What do you make of this?
-I, um...
Because she's traveled a long way
to be disappointed.
Well, she shouldn't be here.
You should never have brought her home.
-[Matthew echoing] She's had a shock.
-[Marilla] She's not the only one.
Enough of this foolishness.
Come along inside.
[distant, echoing]
I'm speaking to you, child.
Little girl, that's enough now.
Little girl? Little girl!
Little girl?
I wish I was anything but.
There's no point in crying.
There's been a mistake, is all.
We're not gonna
turn you out of doors tonight.
What is your name?
What does it matter?
I won't be here long enough
for you to remember.
You will mind your manners
and answer the question.
Please... call me Cordelia.
Call you Cordelia? Is that your name?
Or Penelope.
Penelope has a very tragical ring to it.
What is your name, child?
Couldn't you call me either of those?
My name is Anne.
Plain Anne.
Anne is a fine name.
A sensible name.
Could you please spell it with an "E"
when you speak it?
Anne with an "E"
looks much more distinguished.
Very well, then.
Anne, with an "E,"
it's time to come inside.
Get yourself up now.
[Marilla exhales deeply]
I knew it.
This is a lovely home.
Why didn't you tell me at
the train station that you didn't want me?
Why didn't you just leave me there?
If I hadn't seen the White Way of Delight
or the Lake of Shining Waters,
this wouldn't be so hard.
-[Marilla] What on earth does she mean?
-It's just...
It's just a conversation we had
on the road.
I'll put the mare in.
[exhales] Take off your hat.
Lay it and your bag on the bench.
I simply don't understand.
Were there no boys at the asylum?
[Anne] There was an abundance of them.
But Mrs. Spencer said distinctly
that you wanted a girl about my age,
and the matron thought that I would do.
This is what comes of sending word
and not going ourselves. Follow me.
Don't dally.
I'm sorry to disappoint you,
but there's nothing to be done.
We want a boy to help Matthew
with the farm work.
A girl would be of no use to us.
Do you understand?
-I can't say that I do.
-I beg your pardon?
I don't mean any disrespect,
but couldn't I do the farm chores
even though I'm a girl?
That's not the way of things,
and you know it.
But couldn't I?
I'm as strong as a boy,
and I prefer to be outdoors
instead of cooped up in a kitchen.
I don't understand the conundrum.
For example, what if suddenly
there were no boys in the world?
-None at all?
-Fiddlesticks.
It doesn't make sense that girls
aren't allowed to do farm work
when girls can do anything
a boy can do and more.
Do you consider yourself to be delicate
and incapable? Because I certainly don't.
Anyway, since I'm here now,
couldn't you consider it?
I could not.
And put those fool notions
out of your head.
[exhales] Come along.
Let's get you washed up for supper.
Oh, good gracious, child!
What's happened here?
I was pinching myself a lot today
to prove that this was all true.
[forks clinking on plates]
Well, you're not eating at all.
I can't. I'm sorry.
I'm in the depths of despair.
Can you eat
when you're in the depths of despair?
I've never been in the depths of despair,
so I can't say.
Well, did you ever imagine
that you were in the depths of despair?
No, I didn't.
Well, it's a very uncomfortable feeling,
indeed.
When you try to eat, a big lump
comes right up into your throat,
and you can't swallow anything.
Not even if it was a chocolate caramel.
I had chocolate caramel once two
years ago, and it was simply delicious.
I hope you won't be offended that
I can't eat. Everything is extremely nice.
I guess she's just tired.
Best put her to bed, hmm?
Fetch your bag and follow me.
[exhales]
[door creaks]
[exhales] Well, undress.
Quick as you can. Get to bed.
[sniffles, sighs]
I'll come back in a few minutes
for the candle.
[sobs, sniffles]
[sobs]
Good night.
How can you call it a good night
when you know this must be
the very worst night I've ever had?
[sobbing continues]
Oh, that is a filthy habit!
Daresay a man's got a right to smoke...
when his mind's burdened.
I daresay yours is, too.
Yes, this is certainly
a fine kettle of fish.
One of us will have to drive over and see
Mrs. Spencer tomorrow, for certain.
The girl will have to be sent back.
Yep, I suppose so.
You suppose so? Don't you know it?
Well, now, it... seems a pity.
I mean, to send her back?
She's so set on staying.
Matthew Cuthbert, do you mean to say
you think we ought to keep her?
No, no, no. I-I-I...
-No, I suppose not.
-I should say not!
What good would she be to us?
We might be some good to her.
I believe that child has bewitched you.
I can see it plain as plain
you want to keep her.
She's a real interesting kind of person.
That's one way to put it.
You should have heard her talk,
coming from the station.
Well, she can talk fast enough,
and it's nothing in her favor.
I don't mind the conversation.
I don't like children
who have so much to say.
There's something
I don't understand about her.
No, she's gotta be dispatched
straightway back where she came from.
[dishes clattering]
I could hire a boy to help me,
and, uh, she could be company for you.
I'm not suffering for company.
And I'm not gonna keep her.
Well, now...
it's just as you say, of course.
I'm going to bed.
[sighs]
[Anne sobbing]
[owl hooting]
[sobbing]
[birds chirping]
[rooster crows, cows mooing]
[goats bleating]
[Anne] Dearest Snow Queen...
I accept your token offering.
Had I a book, I would press
these sacred blossoms between its pages,
so that I could be forever reminded
of this treasured moment.
Nevertheless...
I, Princess Cordelia...
shall cherish this gift always.
-Let my kiss prove my devotion.
-[Marilla] What are you doing?
It's time you were dressed.
I was imagining that this morning
was different than what it is.
I was making believe
that I was a beautiful princess,
and that this was my sacred chamber,
high in a tall stone spire.
Never mind your chatter.
Sorry.
It's just that your gable room
and your lovely old cherry tree
provide such scope for the imagination.
I've also been wishing with all my might
that you'd tell me
that you'd decided that I could stay.
Pack that inside and come downstairs.
We'll be driving
to see Mrs. Spencer after breakfast.
[sighs]
Put that down at once!
-Did you take anything?
-No!
I was only memorizing.
Let me see.
Stop your snooping and come to breakfast.
[Anne] I'm pretty hungry.
The world doesn't seem such
a howling wilderness as it did last night.
I'm glad it's a pretty morning,
so we won't be driving back in the rain.
That would be extremely difficult to bear.
It's all very well
to read sorrowful stories,
and imagine yourself
living through them heroically, but...
it's not so easy
when you're actually woeful.
Oh, for pity's sake, hold your tongue.
You talk entirely too much.
Yes, ma'am.
Just so's you know, I sent word
to see if that French boy
is available through harvest.
-Gracious me!
-I can milk a cow and split wood.
I can wash clothes, iron, dust, sweep
and so many other things.
There is no end
to what I could accomplish.
I will take care of these dishes for you,
Miss Cuthbert. You will see.
I'll do them right.
Be careful with the kettle.
It's very hot. Use both hands.
I see it clear now.
This very idea was folly.
You can't make up a family.
Only kin is kin.
[thunder rumbling]
[rain pattering]
Surely you'll be needing Anne more
than ever since your husband's passing.
[Mrs. Hammond] I don't want her.
I'm moving to my sister's,
and I got no reason to take her.
-We're overcrowded as it is.
-I don't need another mouth to feed.
[Anne] But I can help you.
-[sighs]
-Haven't I been of help to you?
-Please don't leave me here.
-You're not kin.
I got enough kin.
You're taking her back, and that's final.
[gasps] I'm so sorry! Nothing's broken!
Oh, you'll never keep me now.
I was never going to keep you.
[cutlery clinking]
[exhales] I'll be back in time for tea.
Anne...
-Bye, Mr. Cuthbert.
-I...
I didn't say I'd hire a boy
to get rid of you.
It was in hopes that you could stay.
Thank you.
I'll never forget you.
You take care now...
Anne with an "E."
Oh, for heaven's sake! [clicks tongue]
My brother is a ridiculous man.
I think he's lovely.
He's ever so sympathetic, and
he didn't seem to mind how much I talked.
In fact, he seemed to like it.
I felt he was a kindred spirit
as soon as ever I saw him.
You're both queer enough,
that's for sure.
I've made up my mind to enjoy this drive.
It's been my experience
you can nearly always enjoy something
if you make up your mind firmly
that you will.
Of course,
you must make up your mind firmly.
I believe this is something
that you and I have in common.
[seagulls squawking]
[squawking]
[Anne] I wish I was a seagull.
They're the most carefree
of all the birds, don't you think?
Look. Wild roses!
Isn't pink just the most bewitching color?
I love it, but I can't wear it.
Redheaded people can't wear pink,
not even in the imagination.
Know of anybody whose hair was red
when she was younger,
but got to be another color
when she grew up?
I shouldn't think it likely.
There's another hope gone.
"My life is a perfect graveyard
of buried hopes."
I read that sentence in a book once.
I say it to comfort myself
whenever I'm disappointed in anything.
I don't see where the comforting
comes in, myself.
Because it sounds so romantic,
as if I were a heroine in a storybook.
[Marilla] You must have gone to school.
[Anne] Not a great deal, although I went
when I was at the asylum. I love school.
But in a household with so much to attend
to, the children, the cooking, the chores,
it just wasn't an option.
Is there a reason
why Green Gables is so secluded?
[Marilla] Reason?
My family wasn't inclined
toward idle chatter.
[Anne] Do you miss your parents terribly?
[Marilla] They lived good Christian lives.
You can't begrudge God
for bringing them home.
I suppose not.
You suppose not?
Why is it you find yourself an orphan?
Well, it happened when I was an infant.
I'd like to know the circumstances
if you've a mind to tell them.
I don't mind telling stories.
"Somewhere in a far-off land,
in a place whose name
I do not care to remember,
a gentleman lived not long ago.
One of those with a lance,
and an ancient shield on a shelf
who keeps a skinny nag
and a greyhound for racing--"
-How dare you!
-What?
Do you take me for a fool?
Well, it's just a much better story
than mine.
I didn't ask for any story,
I asked for yours.
If you can't tell the truth,
then I have no time for you.
If you let me tell you
what I imagine about myself,
you'll find it
ever so much more interesting.
Wishing something is different than it is
will not make it so!
Truer words were never spoken.
My parents were Walter and Bertha Shirley.
They were newlyweds,
and they were poor as church mice.
They died of a fever
when I was three months old.
So I've been earning my keep
for as long as I can remember, and...
I suppose I was lucky
that I was placed out,
instead of staying in the asylum.
I never understood it.
If children are such a burden,
then why do people have so many of them?
Nevertheless, it's a shame
I'll never have the opportunity.
What do you mean?
To be one.
[barks]
-[neighs]
-Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Anne!
No! Go home! Go home!
[dog whimpers]
Oh, my Lord!
Are you all right?
-Shh.
-Oh, dear Lord!
-I'm fine. Here you are. Shh.
-Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa.
It's all right. It's all right, Belle.
There is no need to worry anymore, Belle.
-Belle?
-That's her name.
-[chuckles] Wasn't that an adventure?
-Wasn't it just!
-You're sure you're all right?
-Mm-hmm.
Oh! [chuckles]
You were very level-headed.
I'm used to a ruckus.
[clicks tongue]
[Marilla] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
My, you're the last folks I was looking
for today, but I'm real glad to see you.
And how are you doing, dear Anne?
I'm well enough, thank you.
What brings you by, Miss Cuthbert?
Well, the fact is, Mrs. Spencer,
there's been a queer mistake somewhere.
I've come over to see where it is.
Matthew and I sent word for you
to bring us a boy from the asylum.
We told your brother Robert
to tell you we wanted a boy.
Marilla Cuthbert, you don't say so!
But Robert sent word through
his daughter Nancy that you wanted a girl.
Oh, that Nancy
is a terrible flighty thing.
I've often had to scold her
for her heedlessness.
I'm dreadfully sorry about this.
It was our own fault.
We should have come to you ourselves,
and not left an important message
to be handed on by word of mouth.
However, the mistake has been made,
and the only thing to do
is to set it right.
I suppose the asylum
will take her back, won't they?
I suppose, but it might not
be necessary to return her.
My neighbor, Mrs. Blewett,
was just saying to me
she's overburdened by her large family,
and she wishes
she'd sent for a girl to help.
Anne will do nicely.
I call this positively providential.
We'll call on her and see.
I'm sure she'll agree.
[cries]
-How old are you and what's your name?
-Anne Shirley. I'm just 13.
Hmm. You don't look as if
there's much to you. But you're wiry.
I don't know,
but the wiry ones are the best after all.
If I take you, you'll do as I say,
and speak when spoken to.
I don't suffer no backtalk.
If I find you lacking,
you'll know the toe of my boot.
I expect you to earn your keep,
and no mistake.
I'm at my wits' end with this one.
He'll be the death of me.
[cries]
That's a colic cry.
[Mrs. Blewett] What?
[Anne]
He'll do better if you swaddle him.
And gripe water helps.
-Anne has worked for large families.
-And work she will.
This ain't no charity house.
I suppose I can take her
off your hands, Miss Cuthbert.
If you like, I can take her now.
[baby wailing]
W-Well, I-I don't know.
I... I didn't say Matthew and I
had absolutely decided
we wouldn't keep her.
I... I just came over to find out
how the mistake had occurred.
I'd better take her home again,
and talk it over with my brother.
I ought not to decide on anything
without consulting him.
If we make up our minds not to keep her,
we'll send her over to you.
Otherwise, you can assume
that she'll be staying with us.
Will that suit you, Mrs. Blewett?
-I suppose it'll have to.
-Very well.
Good day.
Oh, Miss Cuthbert, did you really say that
perhaps you'd let me stay at Green Gables,
or did I only imagine that you did?
Yes, I did say that and no more.
But it isn't decided yet,
and perhaps we'll conclude that
Mrs. Blewett should take you after all.
Well, I'd rather go back to the asylum
than live with her.
I keep expecting her
to chase after us on a broomstick.
I would like you to hold your tongue
on the ride home.
I've got plenty to think about.
[horse whinnying]
I'll thank you to keep your questions
to yourself till we can speak in private.
Run along inside. Put your bag upstairs,
and put the kettle on.
Yes, Miss Cuthbert.
Oh, wipe that silly grin off your face!
[horse nickers]
[Matthew] I wouldn't give a dog I liked
to that Blewett woman.
Trouble is I don't know about keeping her.
She's an interesting little thing.
It'd be more to the point
if she was a useful little thing.
I propose we give her a one-week trial
to see how she behaves.
She has five days.
I'll need a lot of convincing,
that's for certain.
[cow mooing]
Oh, for heaven's sake!
I noticed last night that you threw
your clothes all about the floor
when you took them off.
That is a very untidy habit,
and I can't allow it.
You must fold your clothing neatly,
and place it on the chair.
I haven't any use for little girls
who aren't neat.
I was so harrowed up in my mind last night
that I didn't think
about my clothes at all.
I'll fold them nicely tonight.
Although, I have been known to forget.
I'm usually in such a hurry
to finally get to bed.
Well, you'll have to remember
if you're gonna stay here.
You understand that you're on trial, yes?
Yes.
A decision will be made in one week.
[Marilla exhales]
Now... say your prayers and get into bed.
I never say any prayers.
What?
Well, I said them at the asylum
Sunday School. I liked the catechism.
[exhales] There's something splendid
about some of the words.
"Infinite and unchangeable."
It's not quite poetry,
but it sounds a lot like it, doesn't it?
We're not talking about poetry, Anne,
we're talking about prayers.
Don't you know
it's a terrible wicked thing
not to say your prayers every night?
I'm sorry.
I-I-I was never taught to say them.
You must say your prayers
while you're under my roof.
Of course. If you want me to.
I'd do anything to oblige you.
[exhales] But you'll have to tell me
how to say them, for just this once.
You must kneel down.
Why must people kneel down to pray?
If I really wanted to pray,
I'll tell you what I'd do.
I'd go into a great big field all alone...
or into the deep, deep woods,
and I'd look up into the sky, up up up,
into that lovely blue sky without end...
and I would just feel a prayer.
Well, I'm ready. What am I to say?
You're old enough to pray for yourself.
Just thank God for your blessings...
and ask Him humbly
for the things that you want.
I'll do my best.
[exhales]
Gracious heavenly Father...
That's what ministers say in church,
so I suppose it's all right
for private prayer?
Hmm.
Gracious heavenly Father...
I thank Thee for the White Way of Delight
and the Lake of Shining Waters...
and for dear Belle
and the lovely Snow Queen.
I'm really extremely grateful for them.
And that's all the blessings
I can think of just now to thank Thee for.
And as for the things I want,
they're so numerous
that it would take me a great deal of time
to name them all,
so I shall only mention
the two most important.
Please let me stay at Green Gables.
Please let me be good-looking
when I grow up.
Yours respectfully, Anne Shirley.
[exhales] There. Did I do it all right?
That'll do for now.
Get into bed, child.
Oh, I just realized,
I should have said "amen"
in place of "yours respectfully"
the way ministers do.
Do you suppose it'll make any difference?
I don't suppose it will.
As God is my witness,
I will do everything in my earthly power
to make you want to keep me.
Good night.
God, give me strength
to succeed in my quest!
That will do.
Sorry. I quite like praying.
Well, it's time to say good night.
Good night.
[exhales]
[door closes]
[fire crackles]
That girl's next door
to a perfect heathen.
God only knows
what we're getting ourselves into.
[clucks]
[cows mooing]
[rooster crows]
Anne!
[shouts] Anne!
-She's gone!
-Gone?
I'll check the silverware.
[chickens clucking]
Eggs! That's one chore done!
And now I've met all the chickens, so
you don't need to make any introductions!
I've been up since before the sun.
I was too excited to sleep.
And I wanted to start proving to you
that I should stay.
It's so easy
to love Green Gables, isn't it?
[Anne exhales]
I'll let the milkers out to graze.
I'll have breakfast on soon.
-May I take these blossoms up to my room?
-No!
You don't want your room or your person
cluttered up with flowers.
You should have left them on the tree.
I felt that way, too. I shouldn't shorten
their lovely lives by picking them.
I mean, I wouldn't want to be picked
if I were a blossom.
Wouldn't it be lovely to be a blossom?
Yesterday, you wanted to be a seagull.
♪ And the power and the glory
Forever, amen ♪
[chuckles] I like this prayer.
It's lovely.
"Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be Thy name!"
It's like a line of music.
Just get on with the business
of learning it.
"Our Father, who art in heaven..."
Regardless of the outcome here,
you should have something to wear
besides that flimsy bit of business.
I have a leftover piece of cotton
on a bolt that may do nicely.
You're going to make me a dress?
You need something suitable that fits you.
A new dress!
Well, I've never had a new dress,
not ever!
I can't wait to have puff sleeves
and ever so many flounces!
Think you can adorn it with lace
at the cuff and neckline, too?
I don't believe in frills or flounces.
But surely you don't mind puff sleeves?
All the girls are wearing them.
Puff sleeves are divine.
-Waste of fabric.
-Oh.
Well, I-I'm sure if it's a lovely
azure blue or willow green,
I'm sure I won't mind if it's...
plain.
You're a vain one and no mistake.
Brown is a very sensible color.
I'll need your dress,
so I can use it for a pattern.
Let's take these things off now.
Thank you, Miss Cuthbert.
I've very grateful to have something new.
Really I am.
I'm sure I can imagine it's fashionable.
[exhales]
Shouldn't take me but a day or two.
If it looks just like this one,
it shouldn't take you any time at all.
You run along now and learn the prayer.
Yes, Miss Cuthbert.
"Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be Thy..."
Puff sleeves!
[exhales]
-Morning, Marilla.
-Morning, Rachel.
I brought you some scones.
I felt for sure you wouldn't have time
for baking, what with all the hubbub.
Thank you.
I'll just come in
and sit a spell, shall I?
Catch my breath.
I've been hearing some surprising things
about you and Matthew.
I don't suppose you're any more surprised
than I am myself.
What an incredible mistake.
[sighs] The mind reels.
Couldn't you have just sent her back?
We may yet.
But for now, she's here on trial.
-Trial?
-One week.
Matthew is quite set on keeping her.
And I'll admit
she's a bright little thing,
but I'll need a great deal
more convincing.
I know it by heart, Miss Cuthbert!
Anne, this is our neighbor, Mrs. Lynde.
Well, they didn't pick you for your looks,
that's sure and certain.
She's terribly skinny and homely, Marilla.
[Rachel chuckles]
All elbows and knees. [laughs]
Did you ever see such freckles?
And hair as red as carrots! Dear, dear me.
-I hate you.
-[Marilla] Anne...
-I hate you, I hate you, I hate you!
-Anne!
How dare you call me skinny and ugly!
And how dare you call me
freckled and redheaded!
You are a rude, unfeeling woman!
Well!
How would you like
to have such things said about you?
H-How would you like to be told
that you're fat and clumsy,
and that you probably hadn't
a spark of imagination in you?
And I don't care if I hurt your feelings
by saying so.
I hope I hurt them!
Because you have hurt my feelings worse
than they have ever been hurt before!
[shouts] And I will never forgive you
for this! Never, never!
Anne!
Come back here! Anne!
[cows mooing]
[breathes heavily]
[Marilla sighs]
Well!
I never.
It's a good thing you can send her back.
I wouldn't envy you the job
of bringing that up.
You shouldn't have twitted her
about her looks.
Marilla Cuthbert.
You don't mean to tell me
that you are upholding her
in such a terrible display of temper
as we've just seen?
I am not trying to excuse her.
She has been very naughty,
and I'll have to give her
a talking-to about it.
But we must make allowances for her.
She's never been taught what is right.
And you were too hard on her.
Well...
I can see now I'm gonna have to be
very careful what I say after this...
since the fine feelings of orphans,
brought from goodness-knows-where,
have to be considered
before anything else.
-Now, now!
-Oh, no, no.
I'm not vexed.
Don't worry yourself.
I feel too sorry for you
to have any anger left in my mind.
But if you will take my advice,
you will have that "talking-to"
with a fair-sized birch switch.
And get her on the next train out.
Goodbye, Marilla.
[door opens]
[Anne pants]
[seagulls squawking]
[breathes heavily]
[cows mooing, goats bleating]
[Matthew] It's been quite a spell.
She'll make her own way home.
I could go.
She's in her underthings,
so she's gotta come back.
-The girl needs to learn some sense.
-[exhales]
I'm sorry. I shouldn't have lost my temper
and embarrassed you
in front of Mrs. Lynde.
I hope you can forgive me.
-Are you all right?
-Yes.
I'm sorry for worrying you.
I needed time to ponder.
If you let me stay, I will do my very best
not to fly into another temper ever again.
I appreciate that you're contrite, Anne...
but the person that you owe
the apology to is Mrs. Lynde.
But she hadn't any right
to call me ugly and redheaded.
[Marilla]
You say it yourself often enough.
But there's a difference
between saying a thing yourself
and hearing other people say it.
You need to learn discipline.
Just imagine how you would feel
if someone told you to your face
that you were skinny and ugly.
Remember when we were young, Marilla,
old lady Adams said--
-Yes.
-That you were gawky--
-Yes. Thank you.
-I recall you suffered from it--
I don't say Mrs. Lynde was exactly right
in saying what she did to you, Anne.
-She's too outspoken.
-She's a bully.
But that is no excuse
for such behavior on your part.
You were rude and saucy,
and you must go to Mrs. Lynde
and tell her that you're sorry
and ask her to forgive you.
I could never do that.
Punish me any way you like.
Shut me up in a dark, damp dungeon,
and I shan't complain,
but I cannot ask Mrs. Lynde to forgive me.
We're not in the habit
of shutting people up in dungeons.
But apologize to Mrs. Lynde you must.
And you'll stay up in your room until
you can tell me you're willing to do it.
I'll have to stay up there forever, then,
because I can't tell Mrs. Lynde
I'm sorry I said those things to her.
How can I? I'm not sorry.
I'm sorry I vexed you,
but I'm glad I told her just what I did.
It was a great satisfaction!
In fact, I can't even imagine
that I'm sorry.
Well, let's hope your imagination
is in better working order by morning.
Y-You can't send her back over this.
Don't be so sure.
Well, it's...
[grunts]
Well, it's good that, uh,
Rachel got a calling-down.
Well...
-Wish I'd been there.
-Matthew Cuthbert, I'm astonished at you.
And you'll take her up a meal.
When did you ever hear of me
starving people into good behavior?
She'll stay up there until she's willing
to apologize, and that is final.
[chickens clucking]
[seagulls squawking]
[door creaks]
How's by you, Anne?
I'm fairly well, thank you. I imagine a
good deal, so that helps to pass the time.
Don't you think you better, um, say it?
Just have it over with?
If I apologize, I'll be fibbing.
Hmm.
It'll have to be done sooner or later,
for Marilla's, um...
a dreadful determined woman,
dreadful determined.
So am I.
[clicks tongue]
It's, uh...
It's terrible lonesome downstairs
without you.
I'm not used to the quiet anymore.
The trouble is that the prospect
seems humiliating and unfair.
But you're smart enough...
to find the right words, I'm sure of it.
But why should the apology
have to come from me
when it was Mrs. Lynde
who caused the entire situation?
Well, you know...
I like to think that...
that one fine day,
it won't matter a whit to you
what anybody says sideways.
You have a good imagination.
I suppose it would be true enough
to say I'm sorry.
I am sorry I upset Miss Marilla. And you.
So go and smooth things over, can't you?
Very well. I'll attempt it.
For you.
Now that's good news.
[soft chuckle]
Don't tell Marilla we had a conversation,
on account of we decided
raising you was her department.
I shall carry our secret to my grave.
[door closes]
[exhales]
Whatever you're thinking, Anne...
I hope you're taking this seriously.
Oh, I am. I'm imagining out
what I must say to Mrs. Lynde.
[Anne pants]
Oh, Mrs. Lynde, I am so extremely sorry!
I could never express my sorrow, no!
Not even if I used up a whole dictionary.
I behaved terribly to you, and I've
disgraced my dear friends, the Cuthberts,
who may let me stay at Green Gables,
even though I'm not a boy.
I am a dreadfully wicked
and ungrateful girl,
and I deserve to be punished and cast out
by respectful society forever.
It was awful of me to fly into a temper
because you told me the truth.
And it was the truth.
Every word you said was true.
My hair is red, and I am freckled
and skinny and ugly.
What I said to you was true, too,
but I shouldn't have said it!
Oh, Mrs. Lynde!
Please, please, say you can forgive me.
If you refuse, it'll be a lifelong sorrow
on a poor little orphan girl.
Please, say you forgive me, Mrs. Lynde!
There, there. Get up, child.
Of course I forgive you.
I guess I was a little hard on you,
but I'm just an outspoken person.
You mustn't mind me, that's what I say.
Thank you for your kind consideration.
I look forward to never minding
what you say again.
-[exhales]
-Indeed.
Although, it can't be denied
your hair is terrible red.
But there may be hope for it.
There was a girl in our class
who had hair every bit as red as yours.
Do you recall, Marilla?
But when she grew up,
it darkened to a real handsome auburn.
I wouldn't be a mite surprised
if yours did, too.
Oh, Mrs. Lynde, you've given me hope!
I shall always remember
that you were a benefactor--
We should run along, Rachel.
-Thank you for your graciousness.
-Of course.
She has a queer way of expressing herself.
Forcible, like.
I apologized pretty well, didn't I?
I thought since I had to do it,
I might as well do it thoroughly.
Oh, you did it thoroughly all right.
I hope you try to control your temper
better in the future.
I will. I absolutely will.
Although, apologizing
is my new favorite thing. [chuckles]
I'm going to prove myself
worthy of staying, Miss Cuthbert.
I've been making a list in my head of all
the ways I might be useful to you both.
In addition to the indoor chores,
I'm sure I can help with the outdoors too.
I'm much stronger than I look.
It isn't too mu...
You hired a boy?
But I haven't even finished my trial yet.
There's work needs to be done either way.
How long will you be here?
[French accent] Allô. You must be Anne.
-With an "E."
-Uh...
Je m'appelle Jerry. Jerry Baynard.
Nice to meet you.
"Baynard"? Foolhardy.
Pardon?
Your surname means
"reckless or foolhardy."
Charlemagne even named
his impossible horse Baynard.
I don't know him. Charlemagne.
Of course you don't.
He died hundreds of years ago!
[sighs]
-So, you're living here now?
-Yes.
Probably. I... I don't know.
Pretty here.
You're lucky.
I don't remember you from the orphanage.
No, no. I live in town. Big family.
We have a small shop,
but with so many, some of us must work.
Well, if you come
from such a large family,
it may trouble your conscience to know
that you're displacing my own position
in my very first potential family.
I am hired through harvest, so...
I don't think the Cuthberts
will need you if I stay.
In fact, if you hand me your pitchfork,
I'll be happy to finish your task.
What's your problem?
You. You're my problem.
[Jerry sighs]
All I'm doing is my job.
What are you supposed to be doing?
[Jerry sighs]
[Matthew coughs]
[groans, sighs]
My apology was an unmitigated success.
Mrs. Lynde was very pleased.
It's not Rachel Lynde
that you need to worry about.
Miss Cuthbert seemed pleased, too.
Now you're talking.
It'll ease Marilla's mind
that I've got help.
Matthew, are you sure
you still want me to stay?
But the thing of it is...
and Marilla won't admit this...
but she's getting older, too.
I'll go right in!
That's a good idea.
Hey, hey.
[horse snorts]
-Good day to you, Matthew.
-William. Checking the perimeter?
Anything I should know about?
I wanted to talk to you
about your new acquisition.
New?
The orphan girl. From Nova Scotia.
Oh.
Word in town has it
that you're keeping the girl?
Well, we're pretty well decided,
that's true enough.
I wonder if Marilla and the girl
could come to call.
Her name's Anne.
The girl. And that's...
that's real neighborly of you.
Uh...
I'm guessing that she and your Diana
are about the same age.
Before we permit our children
to associate with your Anne,
my wife and I need to assure ourselves
that she won't corrupt their good natures,
or exert any negative influence.
I'm sure you can understand.
Oh, yeah, yeah. I understand.
Very good.
-Afternoon tea tomorrow?
-Tea tomorrow.
-Excellent. Good day to you.
-Mm.
[horse nickering]
We've got an invitation
to tea tomorrow afternoon.
The Barrys.
They want to meet Anne.
I haven't finished the dress. She can't go
wearing that. Oh, my heavens!
Who are the Barrys,
and why do they want to meet me?
Our neighbors.
A very respectable family.
Hem. Buttons.
You'll want to be on your best behavior.
But, why?
They have two little girls
who are very well mannered.
Do they... need help?
Diana is the girl nearest your age.
If you stay here,
perhaps you two will become friends.
A real friend.
[Anne] Let go! Let go of me!
Shut it! I mean it!
[Anne breathes heavily]
Go get it.
-Hold her down.
-Please don't!
-Don't!
-Stop talking!
Guess what, Princess Cordelia?
We're sick of you and your stupid stories!
-Stupid stories!
-Liar!
[screams]
This little mousey made too much noise.
[girls] Squeak, squeak!
But then it got caught in a trap.
[breathes heavily]
So now... no more squeaking!
So, shut your face from now on!
Let's go.
[girls laughing]
[door slams]
[whimpers]
[sobs]
I'm so sorry.
[Marilla] Speak only when spoken to.
No startling speeches.
Anne, what's wrong?
Are you ill?
No, Miss Cuthbert.
I'm fine.
Don't worry.
I'll be as quiet as a mouse.
Um, I don't feel nearly as squashed in it
as I did in my old one.
High praise, indeed.
You've got room to grow.
It's so nice to be wearing something new,
I don't even mind
not having puff sleeves.
This was mine as a girl,
so it's far from new...
but it'll do nicely.
Thank you!
It's so pretty.
You look clean and tidy,
and that's what counts.
Oh, isn't this lovely?
-Hand it here.
-May I try it on?
That is not a toy.
This is a treasured possession.
Do you understand?
I completely understand.
Amethyst is my favorite.
-I think diamonds pale in comparison.
-Do you now?
Amethysts are so much more romantic.
Now this was my grandmother's.
My mother bequeathed it to me.
Well, it's perfectly elegant.
[exhales] Are you ready to go?
-I'm not sure.
-What do you mean?
It's just...
this is a meeting of great auspiciousness.
What if she doesn't like me?
Oh, it's her mother you gotta reckon with.
If Mrs. Barry doesn't like you, it won't
matter a whit how much Diana does.
Whatever's the matter with you, child?
You haven't said a word since we left.
You're not yourself.
Perfect.
-Good afternoon, Miss Cuthbert.
-Afternoon, Mrs. Barry.
Please, call me Eliza.
Oh.
And this must be Anne.
Good afternoon.
Afternoon.
Thank you for having us, Eliza.
Marilla, Anne, please come in.
I don't believe
you said two words during tea.
You didn't even remark on the cake.
Mother let me help her bake it special.
You enjoyed it, didn't you?
The cake was scrumptious.
[Diana chuckles] Scrumptious.
Have you always been shy,
or does it come from being an orphan?
I'm less shy than reticent.
Goodness! There's another 25-cent word.
It's just...
Yes?
I like to read. When I can.
I like reading, too,
but Mother prefers that I do needlepoint.
Does needlepoint provide much scope
for the imagination?
I don't think imagination
is my strong suit.
Really?
I don't know what I'd do without mine.
Life would be an agony.
An utter agony.
Agony!
[both chuckling]
I make up stories all the time.
I could never do that.
I like to imagine
that I am a princess in a tower,
or Joan of Arc riding into battle,
or a forlorn bride who lives by the sea,
but never speaks to anyone
because her one true love was lost
when his ship went down,
and disappeared beneath the waves!
[chuckles] Wonderful!
Could you tell me a story now?
-I could tell you 12!
-[chuckles]
Diana... do you think
you could like me just a little?
I already do!
Shall we swear to be best friends
forever and ever?
It's dreadfully wicked to swear.
No! It's not my kind of swearing.
There are two kinds.
I know because I have a worldly outlook.
This kind isn't wicked at all.
It means vowing and promising solemnly.
I swear it does.
See?
-How do you do it?
-Well...
Well, this ought to be done by moonlight
or over running water...
but we'll imagine that it's nighttime,
and this path is a stream.
Hold this,
and twist your pinky finger around mine.
I'll repeat the oath first.
I solemnly swear...
"...to be faithful to my bosom friend,
Diana Barry,
for as long as the sun and moon
shall endure."
And then she said it and put my name in.
-And then we sent our oath into the world.
-Not in the...
-Oh!
-Sorry! I'll collect them.
It was a wonderful afternoon.
I'm so relieved.
It seems you made a favorable impression
with the Barrys.
And Diana didn't mind my stories at all.
In fact, I told her two,
and we promised to make up another
the next time we're together.
Diana says
she doesn't have much imagination,
but I don't think it matters,
since I have enough for both of us.
They're hosting a church picnic next week
at the Lake of Shining Waters.
I've never been to a picnic.
Can we go, Miss Cuthbert?
[exhales] We'll see.
[pot clatters]
Diana and I are kindred spirits.
And I think she'd be struck quite sad
if I were to be sent away.
Please take my shawl upstairs,
and lay it neatly on my chair.
May I go outside after
and help Matthew with the cattle?
I can't wait to tell him everything!
As long as you're helping
and not just flapping your gums.
Mm.
[gasps]
I'm sorry to arrive so late to the ball,
dear Prince Wisteria.
One of my squires returned on horseback
after a harrowing journey...
and handed me a letter
that required my urgent attention.
So, please, do not doubt my love.
And please, please,
let the Cuthberts decide to keep me.
I realize now it's the only thing
I truly want,
so you don't have to worry yourself
about my red hair.
Amen.
-Where is my brooch?
-It should be there on your shawl.
It is not.
Nor is it in my jewelry box.
Did you take it?
I was playing with it,
but I didn't take it.
-[sighs] You were told not to touch it.
-I'm sorry.
It's so beautiful, I couldn't resist.
You were told
to set the shawl on the chair.
I did.
Well, I've looked everywhere.
The brooch is nowhere to be found.
[sighs]
Give it back. Right now.
But I didn't take it, Miss Cuthbert.
Honest, I didn't.
I don't believe you.
Where else would it be?
Confess at once.
But I...
I'm not gonna live
with a thief under my roof!
You confess to stealing the brooch, or
you have no future here at Green Gables.
But I didn't take it.
Confess!
Or I'll send you right back to the asylum.
If I don't confess, you'll send me back?
Confess to what you have done!
If I do, can I stay here at Green Gables?
Did you or did you not take the brooch?
[clicks tongue] I lost it.
I-I was playing Lady Cordelia
when I took the brooch outside with me.
And as I was drawing water from the well,
I leaned over to make a wish
and it fell in.
I heard it make a splash,
as it disappeared down into the depths.
I'm ever so sorry, Miss Cuthbert.
Pack your things.
[voice trembles] But you said
if I confessed, I could stay!
I told you that brooch
meant a great deal to me.
No, b-b-but I-I made that up!
None of that was real! I didn't take
your brooch! I don't know where it is!
Please, Miss Cuthbert,
you have to believe me.
I don't have to do anything!
Please, Miss Cuthbert.
I can't trust one word out of your mouth.
-Please.
-Enough!
You're not to leave this room tonight.
Tomorrow, you will go at first light.
[breathes heavily]
[gasping breaths]
[sobs softly]
[door closes]
[horses whinnying]
Matthew!
[Matthew] Hyah! Hyah!
Giddyup! Giddyup!
Hyah! Hyah!
Hyah!
[train whistling]
[horse neighs]
Did I miss it?
Did I miss the train?
Oh, not to worry.
Your girl got on all right.
[train whistles in distance]
[train whistling]